Update release_plan.md (#20351)
microsoft/vscode-python: .github/release_plan.md

-   [ ] Create a PR from your branch  **`bump-release-[YYYY.minor]`** to `main`. Add the `"no change-log"` tag to the PR so it does not show up on the release notes before merging it.

NOTE: this PR will fail the test in our internal release pipeline called `VS Code (pre-release)` because the version specified in `main` is (temporarily) an invalid pre-release version. This is expected as this will be resolved below.

### Step 2: Creating your release branch ❄️
-   [ ] Create a release branch by creating a new branch called **`release/YYYY.minor`** branch from `main`. This branch is now the candidate for our release which will be the base from which we will release.

NOTE: If there are release branches that are two versions old you can delete them at this time.

### Step 3 Create a draft GitHub release for the release notes (🤖) ❄️

> -   [ ] Go [here](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-python/releases/new) to create a new GitHub release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   [ ] Create a new [GitHub release](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-python/releases/new).
```

-   [ ] Specify a new tag called `YYYY.minor.0`.
-   [ ] Have the `target` for the github release be your release branch called **`release/YYYY.minor`**.
-   [ ] Create the release notes by specifying the previous tag for the last stable release and click `Generate release notes`. Quickly check that it only contain notes from what is new in this release.
-   [ ] Click `Save draft`.

### Step 4: Return `main` to dev and unfreeze (❄️ ➡ 💧)
NOTE: The purpose of this step is ensuring that main always is on a dev version number for every night's 🌃 pre-release. Therefore it is imperative that you do this directly after the previous steps to reset the version in main to a dev version **before** a pre-release goes out.
-   [ ] Create a branch called **`bump-dev-version-YYYY.[minor+1]`**.
-   [ ] Bump the minor version number in the `package.json` to the next `YYYY.[minor+1]` which will be an odd number, and switch the `-rc` to `-dev`.(🤖)
-   [ ] Run `npm install` to make sure `package-lock.json` is up-to-date _(you should now see changes to the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` only relating to the new version number)_ . (🤖)

> -   [ ] From this branch create a PR against `main`.
> -   [ ] Merge pull request into `main`. This will delete branch **`bump-dev-version-YYYY.[minor+1]`** as it is no longer needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   [ ] Create a PR from this branch against `main` and merge it.
```

-   [ ] Open appropriate [documentation issues](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-docs/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Apython).
-   [ ] Contact the PM team to begin drafting a blog post.

# Release (Wednesday, XXX XX)

### Step 6: Take the release branch from a candidate to the finalized release
-   [ ] Make sure the [appropriate pull requests](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-docs/pulls) for the [documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/python-tutorial) -- including the [WOW](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/python) page -- are ready.
-   [ ] Check to make sure any final updates to the **`release/YYYY.minor`** branch have been merged.
-   [ ] Create a branch against  **`release/YYYY.minor`** called **`finalized-release-[YYYY.minor]`**.
-   [ ] Update the version in `package.json` to remove the `-rc` (🤖) from the version.
-   [ ] Run `npm install` to make sure `package-lock.json` is up-to-date _(the only update should be the version number if `package-lock.json` has been kept up-to-date)_. (🤖)
-   [ ] Update `ThirdPartyNotices-Repository.txt` manually if necessary.

> -   [ ] Create PR from **`finalized-release-[YYYY.minor]`** and ensure it will be merged against the release branch **`release/YYYY.minor`**. (🤖)
> -   [ ] Merge pull request into the release branch **`release/YYYY.minor`**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   [ ] Create a PR from **`finalized-release-[YYYY.minor]`** against `release/YYYY.minor` and merge it.
```

All dates should align with VS Code's [iteration](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/labels/iteration-plan) and [endgame](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/labels/endgame-plan) plans.

> Feature freeze is Monday @ 17:00 America/Vancouver, XXX XX .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Feature freeze is Monday @ 17:00 America/Vancouver, XXX XX.
```

NOTE: the number of this release is in the issue title and can be substituted in wherever you see [YYYY.minor].

# Release candidate (Monday, XXX XX)

NOTE: Third Party Notices are automatically added by our build pipelines using  https://tools.opensource.microsoft.com/notice.

### Step 1:
##### Bump the version of `main` to be a release candidate (also updating debugpy dependences, third party notices, and package-lock.json).❄️ (steps with ❄️ will dictate this step happens while main is frozen 🥶)

> -   [ ] checkout to  `main` on your local machine and run `git fetch` to ensure your local is up to date with the remote repo.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   [ ] checkout to `main` on your local machine and run `git fetch` to ensure your local is up to date with the remote repo.
```

-   [ ] Create a new branch called  **`bump-release-[YYYY.minor]`**.
-   [ ] Change the version in `package.json` to the next **even** number and switch the `-dev` to `-rc`. (🤖)
-   [ ] Run `npm install` to make sure `package-lock.json` is up-to-date _(you should now see changes to the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` at this point which update the version number **only**)_. (🤖)
-   [ ] Check [debugpy on PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/debugpy/) for a new release and update the version of debugpy in [`install_debugpy.py`](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-python/blob/main/pythonFiles/install_debugpy.py) if necessary.
-   [ ] Update `ThirdPartyNotices-Repository.txt` as appropriate. You can check by looking at the [commit history](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-python/commits/main) and scrolling through to see if there's anything listed there which might have pulled in some code directly into the repository from somewhere else. If you are still unsure you can check with the team.

> -   [ ] Create a PR from your branch  **`bump-release-[YYYY.minor]`** to `main`. Add the `"no change-log"` tag to the PR which ensures it passes CI and does not show up on the release notes.
> -   [ ] 🧍🧍 Get approval on this PR then merge this PR into main. This will delete branch **`bump-release-[YYYY.minor]`** as it is no longer needed. (steps with 🧍🧍require an additional person)

Reviewer 2: As we can no longer merge a PR without approval now, I think there's an opportunity here to make this concise.

```suggestion
-   [ ] Create a PR from your branch  **`bump-release-[YYYY.minor]`** to `main`. Add the `"no change-log"` tag to the PR so it does not show up on the release notes before merging it.
```

> NOTE: this PR will fail the test in our internal release pipeline called `VS Code (pre-release)` because the version specified in `main` is (temporarily) an invalid pre-release version. This is expected as this will be resolved below.

Reviewer 2: +1 on adding this disclaimer👍

# Feature freeze (Monday @ 17:00 America/Vancouver, XXX XX)

-   [ ] Post in the `#python` channel in Slack to notify that the python extension is entering feature freeze. ❄️ (steps with ❄️ will dictate this step happens while main is frozen 🥶)

NOTE: the number of this release is in the issue title and can be substituted in wherever you see [YYYY.minor].

# Release candidate (Monday, XXX XX)

NOTE: Third Party Notices are automatically added by our build pipelines using  https://tools.opensource.microsoft.com/notice.

### Step 1: 

> ##### Bump the version of `main` to be a release candidate (also updating debugpy dependences, third party notices, and package-lock.json).❄️

Author: yes, I think my initial note on this got removed during an edit. I will add it back

-   [ ] Check to make sure any final updates to the **`release/YYYY.minor`** branch are merge into this branch.
-   [ ] Create a branch against  **`release/YYYY.minor`** called **`finalized-release-[YYYY.minor]`**. 
-   [ ] Update the version in `package.json` to remove the `-rc` (🤖) from the version.
-   [ ] Run `npm install` to make sure `package-lock.json` is up-to-date _(the only update should be the version number if `package-lock.json` has been kept up-to-date)_. (🤖)
-   [ ] Update `ThirdPartyNotices-Repository.txt` manually if necessary.
-   [ ] Create PR from **`finalized-release-[YYYY.minor]`** and ensure it will be merged against the release branch **`release/YYYY.minor`**. (🤖)
-   [ ] 🧍🧍 Get approval on PR then merge the PR into **`release/YYYY.minor`**. This will delete branch **`finalized-release-[YYYY.minor]`** as it is no longer needed.
-   [ ] Merge pull request into the release branch **`release/YYYY.minor`**.

### Step 7: Execute the Release

> -   [ ] Make sure CI is passing for **`release-YYYY.minor`** release branch (🤖).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   [ ] Make sure CI is passing for **`release/YYYY.minor`** release branch (🤖).
```

> -   [ ] Run the [CD](https://dev.azure.com/monacotools/Monaco/_build?definitionId=299) pipeline on the **`release-YYYY.minor`** branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   [ ] Run the [CD](https://dev.azure.com/monacotools/Monaco/_build?definitionId=299) pipeline on the **`release/YYYY.minor`** branch.
```

    -   [ ] Click `run pipeline`.
	-   [ ] for `branch/tag` select the release branch which is **`release-YYYY.minor`**.

> 	-   NOTE: You no longer need to wait for VS Code to release before we since our extension version depends on the VS Code engine number.

Author: Someone also please confirm this is correct since I have gotten different answers from @karthiknadig and @brettcannon. Thanks

Reviewer: Two things.

One, you got two _nuanced_ answers. 😉 _When_ the VS Code engine makes it so it won't go to users unless they are on VS Code stable that's about to go out, we can release whenever. Otherwise we prefer to release close to the same time as VS Code just so we align with when the VS Code release notes go out. But we are not explicitly aligning every release with the latest VS Code version, only when our API usage requires it.

Two, as manager I win tie breaks. 😉

Author: ok I think I worded it correctly this time but please let me know if not

> -   [ ] 🧍🧍 Get approval on the release on the [CD](https://dev.azure.com/monacotools/Monaco/_build?definitionId=299).

Reviewer 3: Yes, this step needs someone else's approval

-   [ ] Click "approve" in the publish step of [CD](https://dev.azure.com/monacotools/Monaco/_build?definitionId=299) to publish the release to the marketplace.  🎉 
-   [ ] Take the Github release out of draft.
-   [ ] Publish documentation changes.
-   [ ] Contact the PM team to publish the blog post.
-   [ ] Determine if a hotfix is needed.

> -   [ ] Merge the release branch **`release-YYYY.minor`**  back into `main`. (This step is only required if changes were merged into the release branch. If the only change made on the release branch is the version, this is not necessary. Overall you need to ensure you DO NOT overwrite the version on the `main` branch.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   [ ] Merge the release branch **`release/YYYY.minor`**  back into `main`. (This step is only required if changes were merged into the release branch. If the only change made on the release branch is the version, this is not necessary. Overall you need to ensure you DO NOT overwrite the version on the `main` branch.)
```
